1. what is web service?
ans: As per the W3c definition a web service is a software system designed to support interoperable(platform independent) machine to machine interaction over a network.
2. what are the key termonolgy of web service?
ans: Request, Response, Message Exchange Format,server,client,service definition,Transport.
3. What is Request and Response of web service?
ans: Request is the input of our service and response is output of service.
4. What is message exchange format ?
ans:: Message exchange format is the format of the request and response.Example :: XML,JSON.
5. what is service provider (server), service consumer(client), and service definition?
ans: 1. service provider: which host the web service .
2. service consumer:: which consumes the web service.
3.service definition:: contract between the service provider and service consumer.It defines the format of the request and response like Request/Response Format , Request Structure, Response Structure, EndPoint-- defines the url.
6. what is transport ?
ans: Transport defines how a service is called.Like whether  the service is exposed over HTTP web or Transport Queue.
7. How does data exchange between applications take place?
ans:: Data exchange between applications take place through transport provider like HTTP and Transport Queues using message exchange format like JSON and XML.
8. what is REST and SOAP services?
ans: These are types to define and implementation of web services.
REST: Representional State Transfer Protocol
SOAP:: Simple Object Access Protocol.
9. what is WSDL?
ans: WSDL stands for web service definition language. it is used by SOAP service as service definition. WSDL defines the Endpoints, All Operations, Request Structure, Response Structure. It also defines the request and response structure.
10. what is the difference between SOAP and REST web service?
ans::1.SOAP is a format of XML and REST is an Architectural style. 
2. In SOAP the data exchange format is always XML i.e SOAP XML which is basicallly  SOAP envelop header and body.Both the request and response is adhere to the SOAP structure. In REST there is no strict data exchange format You can use JSON as well as XML . It supports both . REST doesn't have the standard WSDL. While SOAP uses WSDL. 
3. SOAP allows HTTP and MQ both Protocol but REST only supports HTTP protocol.
4. REST is typically more easier to implement compare to SOAP.
11. What are the importnat terms that a spring application search for?
ans: There are three important things for which spring application ask for:
a). What are the beans::use @Component on the required class to tell spring  that its a bean. 
b).What are  the dependencies of a bean :: in a bean you need to use @Autowired annotation to tell spring that is the dependency of the bean.
c). where to search for a bean:: @SpringBootApplication already search all the packages for component scan. no need to define.
12. what is spring application context ?
ans: Application Context of spring maintains all the beans of application.If you want to get the bean  that you defined in spring you can get it from Application Context.


